okay I'm glad you're all able to find a
seat this
morning let's dive in uh I don't have
anything to report in terms of the final
project any
questions so far so
good yes
um how
like well how many like Generations do
you recommend like
runal good question so how much how many
generations what population size how
much evolutionary effort to put into
proving a is better than b b is better
than a or there's no difference it
depends on what your A and B is what I
suggest you do uh is run for a few
generations of your variant a and a few
generations of your variant B and see if
there's a difference if there isn't keep
going so what does it mean to stop and
keep going
uh there's an idea in software
engineering about checkpointing so that
you're able to write out every synaptic
weight of every individual in the
population to a file and then read it
back in so you can alter your code so
that it starts up in one of two modes if
it starts up in mode mode one it starts
with an initial random population of
solutions mode two it reads in all of
the individuals from a file and
continues on from there make
sense okay um if you're going to do
checkpointing a very uh useful a useful
python library is the
pickle Library you can tell pickle to
save a data structure to a file if you
give it a dictionary it will write out
everything in that dictionary to a file
and you don't have to worry about how
it's doing it and then alternatively you
can read back in a pickled file So
reading pickling makes reading and
writing an entire population to dis very
easy yeah better to do that then to run
variant a for 100 generations and then
you run out a time and then you run
variant B for three generations and it's
hard to tell whether a is better than b
b better than a or there's no
difference other questions or comments
cam for uh for the differentiable
assignments has anyone figured out a
better way to do Collision detection and
resolution yes I've seen in many of the
F in the weekly reports people are
playing around with different Collision
detection and resolution Solutions I
would ask your question in the
subreddit and for those listening at
home if you have a better way to do
Collision detection and resolution in
diff Lots posted to the subreddit and we
can share notes is there something in
particular you're looking for in the
Collision detection
resolution no Mass point to ground or
mass point to mass Point yeah Mass point
to ground Mass point to ground okay
okay
okay other questions or
comments okay so um next Monday you're
going to be submitting your fourth and
final weekly report and then you got a
whole week to work on the oral and
written reports for your final
project next Tuesday on next Tuesday in
class I will talk about what that oral
report and written report should look
like uh and what exactly we're going to
be doing during the final project during
the final exam
period all good okay so uh back to our
final theme of the course where we're
starting to look at evolutionary
algorithms now in which we're widening
The evolutionary algorithm so that
whatever is in the genotype the
blueprint of the robot there are
parameters that specify aspects of the
brain and the body so we're looking at
evolutionary algorithms that evolve body
and brains simultaneously which of
course is what actually happens in
nature but as we saw last time it's
complicated it's not so easy to create
an evolutionary algorithm that is able
to simultaneously make evolutionary
improvements to the physical structure
and the neural controller of the robot
and we're going to dive back into
lecture two in a moment which is
arguably the most complicated
evolutionary algorithm we've seen in
this class Carl Sims came up with a
relatively complicated genotype a data
structure for encoding body and brain a
not that difficult phenotype we've seen
that before rigid robots made of links
and
Joints but a pretty complicated genotype
a phenotype map we've got a relatively
complicated algorithm that TR that's
Translating that genetic blueprint into
the phenotype the robot and we almost
made it all the way through the GP map
last time we'll finish that off today
okay that should take us for uh that
should take us through the next half
hour or so and then we'll dive into
lecture 23 where we're going to again
look at another evolutionary algorithm
that also evolves bodies and brains but
this time for soft robots
rather than rigid robots Okay so back to
Carl Sims uh this is uh an experiment
which in many ways was ahead of its time
back in
1994 many generations of grad students
have tried to reimplement uh Carl Sims
to more or less varying success myself
included not not an easy thing to do
okay okay so just to refresh your memory
we're looking at genotypes which are
encoded as nested directed
multigraphs and the phenotypes pretty
familiar things we've seen before uh
links connected by joints okay we saw
last time that as we read out a genotype
every time we visit a node in the
genotype we create a link and when we
travel along an edge to another node
When we arrive at that new node we
create a new link but that new link is
going to have a different
XYZ a different length width and height
and a different role pitch and Y A
different orientation relative to the
link that we just created previously and
those Deltas in those nine numbers XY Z
LW and RP and Y are encoded in labels on
the edges everybody kind of remember how
this goes okay we ended last time by
looking at the by looking at the nested
part of the genotype inside every node
in the genotype is another collection of
nodes and edges these nested nodes and
nested edges specify how to build the
brain inside the body of the robot in
the example we were looking at last time
we have this particular node here uh
which has a self connection this outer
node here tells us how to build this
piece and this
piece this node out here tells us how to
build this fin this fin this Fin and
this fin how did I know that this node
builds these two pieces and this node
builds these four
pieces it doesn't explicitly say but
there's some strong hints in the
genotype just the structure of the graph
one recurs into itself and actually
branches
and the others are just terminal
absolutely so this has a self connection
this piece looks quite a lot like this
piece so however we build this piece
there's some Deltas that cause us to
build this piece and then we've got two
outgoing edges every time we build this
node we build two
copies of this node I see two copies of
two things branching off from this thing
that's the hint in the genotype that it
builds the the phenotype not strictly
necessary but just helping us to build
an intuition for how this GP Map works
okay so these nested nodes every single
one of them correspond to a neuron so
whenever we build one of these four fins
we're going to visit this outer node
four times every time we're going to
also drop one two three four five six
neurons inside this fin so we've got six
12 18 24 neurons so
far some of these neurons are hidden
neurons and the little symbol inside the
neuron specifies what activation
function to put inside that
neuron the J's here correspond to sensor
neurons these are sensor neurons that
are going to sit on the two joints j0
and J1 inside the fin why two joints and
every in most of what we've seen so far
in this course we've got a link like
this link and then another link like
this link and we connect them together
with one and only one
joint these neurons are specifying that
their sensor neurons sitting on two
separate joints
inside this link what do you think that
means nonfunctional
maybe maybe one of them is nonfunctional
other ideas it's not specified here but
we can try and
guess might be two degrees ofed rotate
andap up and down absolutely right so
you look at a fish wi uh fish uh fin a
lot of them that are active do something
like this if you have our shoulder joint
is three degrees of freedom one two and
three you can get away with with
something that also has two degrees of
freedom that's what this is meaning in
here so whenever they create a fin and
attach it back to this main body they're
attaching it with two rotational joints
one that does this and one that does
this okay there are also two motor
neurons which in this paper are called
eector neurons uh unfortunately
terminology in robotics isn't
systematized so some people talk about
Motors some people talk about actu
some people talk about affectors they
all mean the same things it's the thing
that applies Force to the
joints so we've got six neurons in here
and at every time step that we simulate
this virtual creature we're going to
take the two values arriving at these
two neurons and treat those values as
desired angles Supply them to the joint
and the fin is going to start to swim
relative or move relative to the main
body so far so good okay there are also
three hidden neurons that are placed
inside the main body so we had 6 12 18
24 plus another three in here 25 26 27
and again when we build this point this
part we're going to drop another copy of
these three neurons in here 28 29 30 so
so far this genotype has dropped 30
neurons throughout the body of this
robot this becomes the peripheral
nervous system for the robot you also
have neurons and synapses distributed
throughout your body including in your
periphery your fingers and toes all the
way throughout your body this robot also
has a central nervous
system where is that specified in this
genotype
it's the piece that's left inside the
genotype there is it one special node
it's the one that's shown as a dashed
line here this is just the central brain
of the robot so after the body is built
like we see here and after we as we've
been building the body we've also been
dropping neurons and synapses to build
the peripheral nervous system and just
before we're done finish the finishing
building the phenotype we've almost
finished this mapping operation very
last thing we do is we look inside this
one special node inside the genotype
graph and we make one and only one copy
of everything we find inside this
special node so in this case these three
hidden neurons here they don't really
have a location inside the body doesn't
really matter
what else can you tell me about the
peripheral and central nervous system in
this robot how is the peripheral and
central nervous system wired up they're
not
disconnected values are flowing through
this neural network throughout the brain
of this robot some of the signals coming
in to the joints are flowing into the
peripheral nervous system and into the
central nervous system and then back out
again
where
how these neur
are NE
okay
not yeah not not all of the it seems
like all of the nodes except like these
j z and J1 noes have like an input Edge
that's directly NE good good observation
so these two sensor neurons have no
incoming edges which makes sense the
values that are incoming to the sensor
neurons are values that are incoming
from the sensors the angle of joint zero
in that fin so here's a good place to
start We Are simulating One Time step of
simulating this virtual creature at that
time step we take the two angles of the
two joints in this particular fin which
gives us two floating Point numbers drop
them into j0 and J1 and now those two
floating Point numbers are going to
start to spread through the peripheral
nervous system of the robot let's follow
some of these Trails let's take uh J1
here we can see there's an outgoing Edge
or synapse that goes from J1 to
e0 you'll notice that this particular
arrow is inside this
node so the value arriving at J1 is
influencing the value of e0 the value of
this motor neuron inside this fin the
value has not that this flowing of
information from sensors to Motors has
not left this particular link this is
still all part of the peripheral nervous
system if you touch a hot stove you will
suddenly notice that your hand has
removed itself from the hot stove before
you've even realized that you've done it
for a very good reason there there are
in you synapses that connect uh senses
in your fingertips to muscles in your
arm for exactly that reason there are
certain situations in which you want to
be able to move your arm in response to
what you feel in your hand faster than a
electrical signal can tra can flow from
fingertip up through your spinal cord to
your brain and back down again that
takes on average a little less than
two10 of a second for many things like
putting your hand on a hot stove it's
too slow yeah so in this particular case
this robot is capable of reflexive
action things that are happening in in
the joint in that body part influence
how that body part moves flowing of
information through the peripheral
nervous system let's go back to J1 for
for a moment if you squint you'll notice
there is
also an outgoing synapse that flows into
here what's Happening Here
we have a motor oh sorry we have a
sensor signal that is Flowing along a
[Music]
synapse there like the same sensor
signal is heading towards the like inner
neural system of the robot as well as
the
reflexive absolutely it's flowing out
and into the central nervous system into
the brain of the robot and if we're now
at ITP ITP is short for some kind of
activation function so this neuron in
the in the central brain is also
receiving signals from other parts of
the body and then sending an outgoing
signal back down into a hidden neuron
inside the fin of this virtual
creature but remember that there are
four fins we've created
this little local neural circuit this
part of the peripheral nervous system
we've created four identical copies in
these four different
fins so what's actually happening in the
phenotype of this robot is values are
arriving at the sensors in all four fins
and in each one of these fins there's a
copy of J1 and for each of these four
j1s there are four synapses flowing into
one and only one ITP neuron in the brain
of the
robot that ITP neuron has four identical
outgoing synapses that connect to the
plus the four plus hidden neurons one in
each of the four
fins everybody see
that okay we're spending quite a t a lot
of time on this this is the most
ambitious most complicated GP map we've
seen so far
okay okay any questions about that
before we push
on okay uh I don't think we need to go
into a detailed explanation of all the
different activation functions okay here
is a roll out of the brain here is what
we just talked about but now we're
looking at the phenotype and not the
genotype you can see that there is one
one one 2 3 four copies of j0 four
copies of J1 and so on I'm going to skip
back and forth here here's the central
brain saw wave and ITP and we see at the
top one copy of Saw wave and
ITP and that's
it yeah here's the full brain for this
creature there's its body there's its
full Central and peripheral nervous
systems
okay done finished talking about the GDP
map all
good okay all right so couple other
things in this experiment let's talk
about the evolutionary algorithm for a
moment we have a population of graphs
remember that the genotypes are encoding
graphs any one genotype in the
population may have more or fewer nodes
more or different uh edges and so on it
occurred to Carl as he was coding up
this experiment if we have two surviving
genotypes into the next population and
they're going to produce Offspring how
do you do it how do you take two graphs
that have different structure and
combine them in a way that produces a
new graph that produces a child that
hopefully inherits good aspects of the
behaviors of both parents where have we
heard this
before we've got two surviving parents
we want to try and cut their genotypes
in half and glue the two halves together
and hope that we get a child that is as
good if not better than both parents
where have we heard this
before neat absolutely neat was invented
several years after this paper so this
is uh this is an investigator a very
talented investigator struggling with
how do we incorporate some of these
things from Evolution that we know are
useful sex uh was invented by mother
nature for a very good reason there's an
evolutionary Advantage for any
population that can figure out how to
combine genetic material from from
parents that live long enough and
therefore are fit that live long enough
to produce Offspring here's a couple
ideas that Carl came up with take the
genotype for parent one take the
genotype for parent two you can already
see that the nodes in both parents the
number of nodes is different and the way
in which they're wired up is different
Carl just took them all and strung them
out in a one-dimensional line so it
starts to look like a vector and then
simply walk from left to right and at
every step in the walk from left to
right flip a coin Heads Stay with the
same parent stay where you are and just
copy genetic information so we start
here we copy this node into the child we
copy this Edge into the child we get
here we flip a coin Tails Tails tells us
to move to the parent and the other
parent and start copying genetic
material from that other parent into the
child heads Heads Tails switch to the
other parent move to the other parent
and copy that genetic material from
parent one
and then we fall off the right hand edge
of parent one and we're done very very
simple to implement does this guarantee
that the increase the probability that
the child is going to inherit the right
genetic material from both parents
probably not right probably not okay so
let's try and do something a little
smarter let's come up with a
different recombination operator let's
add this to our evolutionary algorithm
The evolutionary algorithm can now uh
randomly choose to graft genetic
material from one parent into another
how does that work same thing take two
surviving parents at random string them
out in a one-dimensional line and like
uh in standard crossover start at the
leftand edge of parent one and start
walking from the left to the right and
as you do copy all the nodes and edges
you uh encounter from parent one into CH
into the child keep flipping a coin
heads heads Heads you stay with parent
one
Tails whatever node you're currently
sitting on follow an outgoing uh follow
an outgoing edge here so we're going to
jump from parent one to parent two and
keep copying all the rest of the
material from parent to very similar to
crossover but we're sort of grafting
some material from one parent onto the
genetic material from another we're not
jumping back and forth from parent one
to parent two we stay with one and when
we leave parent one and arrive at parent
two we stay there and we copy the
remainder of the genetic material from
parent 2 does that increase the
probability that the child is going to
inherit the Best of Both Worlds from
both
parents I don't know my experience with
crossover operators probably
not okay all right so we've talked about
the genotype the phenotype we've talked
about the genotype the phenotype map
we've talked about the evolutionary
algorithm we're going to evolve
populations of graphs as usual we're
also going to have mutation operators
sometimes we grab a single parent we
copy all the nodes and edges but then we
randomly modify some part of the graph
we add delete or modify an edge we add
delete or mod mod ify a node we modify a
parameter inside one of the nodes or we
modify one of the parameters associated
with one of the edges mutation mutation
mutation every once in a while we do
crossover remaining thing is the fitness
function okay last time we saw a video
of several experiments that Carl ran
with his evolutionary algorithm we saw
some very familiar things like
Locomotion you can probably guess what
the fitness function for that one was
it's exactly the one you're probably
using right maximize the X component of
the robot along the ground or maximize
the Y component of the robot along the
ground we also saw some videos of robots
evolved for
jumping maximize the Z component away
from the ground and then we finished by
watching robots competing over a common
resource this one's a little trickier
because to EV evaluate the fitness of
two robots we're going to pit them
against one
another ver it might have been hard to
hear the audio but the narrator was kind
of explaining in plain English what the
fitness function was in this
experiment what was
it it was
the the like ending location of the cube
and like how close it was to the body of
the robot trying to grab it absolutely
so how close was the cube to one of the
robots the closer the cube from the
point of view of this robot the closer
the cube is the higher my fitness is but
remember it takes two to tango here what
about the other
robot what's its
Fitness I've managed to capture the
block and pull it towards myself
I'm minimizing the distance between the
block and myself my fitness value is
going up what's happening to the other
robot it's going down yeah so this is
the first time we've looked at a
co-evolutionary system in which we have
two
populations one population of graphs
another population of graphs and every
time we run a simulation we take one
robot from the first population and one
robot from the second population put
them in this Arena together and let them
literally fight it out and then at the
end of the simulation we assign one
floating Point number to robot one which
is its Fitness and we assign a different
floating Point number to the second
robot and put it back in its
population yeah okay so we can try and
write this down mathematically uh
there's different ways you could do this
this is sort of the simplest thing I can
imagine let's imagine we have robot one
over here and robot two over here I want
to compute the fitness of robot one the
fitness of robot
one is going to be set to D let's start
with this term D2 minus D1 what's the
intuition behind D2 minus D1
the greater the magnitude of D2 minus
D1 the higher the the fitness for robot
One D is going to stand for distance so
when we're talking about distances a
distance is always a positive number so
D1 D2 D1 and D2 are always going to be
positive numbers maximize the distance
of the opponent minimize distance
exactly right so in order for F1 to be
high you want D2 to be high and D1 to be
uh as low as possible right so I want to
minimize my distance I'm robot one from
the cube I want to bring it towards
myself and I want to maximize your
distance if you are a robot 2 away from
the
block the denominator here is at
normalizing term so we can kind of
ignore that for the
moment good question it's not specified
in the
paper it's not specified in the paper if
you go back and watch the video you'll
notice some of the highly fit robots
will just put their hand on top of the
block and not really seem to do anything
else which I interpret as a strong hint
that it's not the center of mass it's
it's probably minimizing the distance
between any one of my body parts and the
block but who knows maybe it doesn't
matter yeah so when you when you obtain
a position from PI bullet it gives you
back the XYZ of the center of the object
good point this can this can matter
depending on what your final project
is if you for whatever reason in your
final project or whatever is that you're
doing you want to actually get the
position of some you know the corner of
this Cube for example just create a
second small link put it there attach it
with the joint and get the XYZ of that
link if it matters for your project okay
same simulation but now we're looking at
robot 2 we got to compute Fitness and of
course its Fitness is symmetric robot 2
wants to minimize its distance from the
cube and maximize robot one's distance
from the cube not that complicated a
fitness function but remember that we're
using a fitness function to compute
usually different values for both robots
in the population and my value is not
dependent just on what I do it depends
on what you do also that's what makes it
a
co-evolutionary
experiment okay uh all right so that's
the fitness function let's just talk
about the simulation for a moment pretty
straightforward we put a cube at the
origin we place uh robot one on the left
side of this dash line we put robot two
on the right side of this dash line and
then you'll notice it says creature one
starting zone and it's got this other
dashed Arrow here uh diagonally pointing
up and
away what do you think this is all about
seems like an odd
detail when we use the GTP map and we
make the body of the robot of robot one
for example we place robot one in this
starting zone but it has to be to the
left of this line and underneath this
diagonal
line why seems like a odd detail to
add the taller I am the heavier I
am pretty much any brain I could
possibly have as long as it tips me
forward I've got the block and if I'm
big and heavy enough I might also manage
to knock you out of the way bonus points
for me you can get you can be absolutely
confident that Sims probably ran this
experiment without this and got perverse
instantiation just a reminder that
perverse instantiation is everywhere for
most of the experiments we've seen in
this class it's hilarious but when
you're writing a control policy or
training a control policy for an
autonomous car not so hilarious this is
a a ubiquitous and unsolved problem in
robotics and
AI okay okay so if we're going to run
this
co-evolutionary experiment what that
means again is we're going to have two
separate evolving
populations how do we actually team up
how do we choose which two robots to put
into the arena together to accurately
assess how good actually in general is
creature 2 at capturing the cube and
keeping any other aders Neary any other
possible creature one Away From the
Block we want to evolve a robot that's
good at capturing the
Block in general not just against that
particular other robot how do we do
it let's start uh Sims actually tried 1
two 3 four five six seven different ways
of competing robots against one another
let's start with panel a here this is
the easiest thing the easiest thing is
actually don't even bother creating two
different populations just create one
big population of random graphs of
random
genotypes take robot one and two put
them in the arena compute their Fitness
take them out put robot one back into
the arena and compete it against robot
three then simulate one in four one and
five one and six one and 7 one and one
100 then two and one two and three two
and four you do every pairwise
competition which means you're going to
actually put every robot in the in this
in the population back into the arena n
times if n is the size of your
population so instead of getting back a
single floating Point Fitness value for
each robot you're going to get back a
value of n Fitness values how well that
Rob robot did actually sorry n minus one
how well did that robot do against every
each of the other n minus one robots in
the population take all those n minus
one values take the average and that
floating point value is the fitness of
that robot it's how well it does against
all the other
adversaries do that for all the all the
robots in the population delete those
that have a low fit low Fitness and make
randomly modified copies of the
survivors simple clean
efficient and exhaustive what's the
problem with this why didn't Sims just
start stop with
that it's inefficient sorry I said it
was efficient it's not efficient why is
it inefficient you have
absolutely so I don't know how long it
takes you to run one generation on your
laptop if you have a population of 10
you got to simulate 10 robots if you
have a population of 10 in this
situation how many simulations do you
have to
run 0 90 right exactly so it's uh it's
exhaustive in that you get a really good
not an estimate you get an actual value
of how well each robot does against
every other robot takes a lot of
computational effort so can we do
better how about B same thing we just
have one population for the moment but
now we're going to randomly choose one
robot and randomly choose one of the
other n minus one robots compete them
against one another put them back pick
another two robots without replacement
meaning we're not going to choose the
original two that have already been in
the the arena so every robot in the
population is only going to enter the
arena
once how many simulations do we need to
run in this
case we have a population of 10
robots five right much more uh much more
efficient we're going to run this
evolutionary algorithm much faster
what's the problem
not enough information maybe not enough
information right so if robot 7 beats
robot
2 great robot 7 has a higher
Fitness is robot 7 good in general at
capturing the cube or is it only good
against robot 2 so we've passed March
March Madness already now but we can do
the bracket approach pick two robots at
random and compete them against one
another another and the winner of each
competition is sent back into the arena
against the winner of another
head-to-head
competition it's going to take a few
more than five simulations how many in
this
case if our population size is n how
many simulations do we need to run now
see some of you calculating in your
heads on average n minus n minus one
right so we've got to do n over two
simulations to start with and then n
divided by four and then n divided by 8
and then n divided by 16 two simulations
two SIM sorry we compete the two
semi-finalists against one another and
we're done n minus one okay all right
little more
inefficient a little bit more
advantageous compared to B
why because there's a focus on
like increasing the overall Fitness
rather than just like increasing the
Fitness in like thisse sort of
fashion yeah that's part of the
explanation
so think about the winners of this
tournament right the winners have to go
back into the arena several times so
we're getting a better and better
estimate of the actual General ability
of the winners what about the
losers you don't get very much
information it could be that
unbeknownst to us the second best robot
in the population by second best meaning
that it can actually take down every
other robot currently in the population
except one other robot it's the second
best robot and in the lottery it gets
teamed up with you can guess who the
best robot gets knocked out of the
tournament the second best robot gets
knocked out of the tournament in the
first round and once the tournament is
over that's second best robot is
possibly going to have a very low
Fitness value compared to the fitness
values of all the other n minus one
individuals in the population so what's
going to happen to that second best
robot as we move from generation I into
generation i+ one it's probably not
going to produce any Offspring so it's
efficient but we could be losing
potentially good genetic
material
okay the uh in D here Sims came up with
something else which he called all
versus best in the all versus best case
in generation zero where you have random
genomes you don't know anything about
the fitness of these n genomes you do
this you do all versus all so you get a
very good estimate of how good everybody
is in
general in the Next Generation you take
this individual which has the highest
Fitness in the population and compete it
against every one of the other n minus
one
robots pros and cons of this
approach it's efficient relatively
efficient we're only doing n minus one
simulations what's the intuition behind
the all versus best strategy
here you have to know which one's best
you have to know which one is best so
it's kind of a con right we need to
exhaustively evaluate the
best what's the advantage of this
compared to for example tournament
selection
here the disadvantage of the tournament
is that second best individual can get
knocked out of the population quite
quickly you giv everyone a chance to be
the best everyone gets a chance to
compete against the champion right we
know we know the fitness of the champion
pretty well we've estimated it pretty
well so if any of these do better
against the champion that's a pretty
strong signal that that other Contender
is also pretty good right in all four of
these cases at the end of the generation
we always end up with one floating point
value for each robot in the population
if for example in this generation this
Contender outcompetes the current
champion it becomes the champion at the
Next Generation but it is now going to
be paired up against every other
individual in the population it has to
this Contender who is now the new
Champion has to enter the arena n minus
one times in the Next Generation so
there's going to be more selection
pressure exerted on this new Champion to
vet to ensure that it really is that
good okay that's one way to do
things Sims also did three additional
experiments in which it was not just one
population but he created two
populations in E he took each individual
from one population and competed it
against all n over two individuals in
the other
population and then did that for each of
the N individuals so this is a
computationally
expensive uh exercise but also gives us
a pretty good estimate of the fitness of
every individual in the population so
pros and
cons f is the same as B here very
computationally efficient but we don't
have a good estimate of how good or how
poor in general each robot is so he
redid All versus best between the
species we've talked about a to AB
testing quite a bit in this class now
this is AB B CDE EFG
testing Sims tells us in the paper
although he didn't provide evidence to
support his claim that he got the most
interesting robots when he used G so all
of the robots competing against the cube
that you saw in the video those were
produced in this all versus best between
species co-evolutionary
algorithm yeah okay all right so we saw
the video which showed us some anecdotal
evidence of how well these robots did
here's a little bit of uh here's a
little bit of quantitative data you can
see we've got four panels here these
four panels correspond to four
independent evolutionary runs using G
we're going to co-evolve two populations
of robots for a number of generations
stop Rewind The evolutionary tape and do
it all over
again in each panel here the horizontal
axis shows us evolutionary time so from
zero to 100
generations and the vertical axis shows
us Fitness ranging from about 0 to two
so a fitness of two is I capture the
block and it's more or less touching my
body and the other individual is two or
three or four or five body lengths Away
From the Block it's about as good as you
can do in this
situation tell me about this first
evolutionary run what's happening
between the black population of robots
and the gray population of robots
they're alternating they're alternating
so during this evolutionary period the
black robots were a little bit better at
capturing the block compared to the gray
robots but then as some due to some
result of mutation and possibly
crossover some gray individuals started
to evolve that could outwit the
strategies of the black robots and those
new gray strategies started to spread
throughout the gray population and now
on average the gray robots were out
competing the black robots there was a
little bit of a tussle here and then the
gray robots were in the ascendency again
when you have co-evolving populations
you tend to get these Cycles all the
time I want you to think for a moment
about a predator species and a prey
species let's assume that the Predators
for whatever reason happen to be quite
good at capturing prey what's going to
happen to the population of prey if the
Predators are very
good they're going to start to die off
which means what's going to start
happening to the
Predators they'll start growing
like increased rate as long as like the
population of is able to sustain them
possibly it's not the population of pray
is dropping so what happens to the
Predators they start to drop less
Predators less Predators they're not
doing so well they're having a hard time
bringing down prey because they's simply
just less prey less Predators means
there's a little bit of less
evolutionary pressure on the prey
there's not that many predators around
at this moment in evolutionary time so
pray that start to produce Offspring in
which those
Offspring avoid the predators in
different
ways May survive it's a little bit of
it's a little bit of risk because the
prey from an evolutionary perspective
was trying different strategies but okay
because there's fewer Predators around
it's a safer time in which to
evolutionarily innovate and maybe some
of those prey will hit on a strategy
that works pretty well they start
evading the Predators they start
producing more offspring more prey what
happens to the
Predators they start to go up you tend
to see fluctuating or oscillating
numbers of predators and prey in most
co-evolutionary systems either out there
in nature or in our virtual world here
you get this oscillation of back and
forth you see that a little bit here
what's happened in the third
evolutionary
run what happened here
bad news for the gray population what's
going
on this is something you tend not to see
in nature this is unnatural unnatural
how any
ideas they just
develop a way of what you
way better than the absolutely the gray
Grays are so sorry the the black robots
are so good at capturing the block and
keeping the gray robots away that if we
were to look across the gray population
they all have Fitness of zero they're
five or more body lengths Away From the
Block no matter what the gray
individuals seem to be doing from a
mutation point of view or an
evolutionary point of view they can't
get anywhere near the block so Evolution
comes to a halt in the gray population
nothing seems to be working this par a
gray parent that has a fitness of zero
maybe it produces two or three
offspring that all have a fitness of
zero Evolution can't make any progress
in the gray population this is unnatural
because of course if this happened in
reality the number of gray robots would
start to become less and less and less
and if the black robots actually are
dependent on the gray robots and there's
less and less of them like in the
Predator prey example we just gave black
is going to start to come down yeah so a
little unnatural and then again in this
fourth evolutionary trial we see a lot
of back and forth between the gray and
the black
population questions comments yes but if
there is always a back when it's a good
moment to St exactly so once we get into
a co-evolutionary system the very the
very idea of Fitness becomes problematic
what does it mean to stop what does it
mean for uh a black robot to have a high
Fitness value or a gray robot to have a
low Fitness value the fitness is still
defined it's mathematically defined like
this but what does it mean what does a
fitness of
1.2 actually mean
biologists tend to have a problem with
evolutionary algorithms and evolutionary
Rob robotics because they point to
Nature and say what's the fitness value
of all the organisms out there there
isn't some absolute metric way of
measuring
quality
yeah okay so to answer your question I
don't have an answer there is no good
answer hard to
say that being said coolu evolutionary
algorithms can be useful because they
tend to produce individuals if you do it
in the right way they can produce
individuals that are good irregardless
of their environment regardless of what
else is going on in their environment
because individuals in a co-evolutionary
population that survive for long enough
they've seen a lot of different things
they've been exposed to a lot of
different
situations so in The evolutionary
algorithms literature there are several
papers that show that a co-evolutionary
algorithm can actually produce at the
end an individual that is good in
general if you do it in the right way
but doing it in the right way can be a
little
tricky other
questions okay that concludes our
discussion of the first attempt to
evolve bodies and brains in rigid robots
we're going to look at a more recent set
of experiments that evolves bodies and
brains for soft robots before we look at
the evolutionary algorithm used to
evolve soft bodies and
brains why would you want to design soft
robots at
all let's start with the why before we
get into the what and the how what's so
great about soft
bodies they don't just like they aren't
just like directly impacted by like
every single
like every single like sort of small
force that could impact them can be like
absorbed and not just like completely
throw off the trajectory of like the
current like movement patterns or like
how they're like deciding to act in a
certain situation absolutely great point
from the perspective of the robot being
able to literally cushion a blow is a
good thing from the robot's perspective
it doesn't necessarily need to react to
everything that happens to it a soft
robot's soft body can absorb literally
absorb forces from
outside without affecting the behavior
of the robot that's good news for the
robot what about the
thing that is impacting the robot can
also be good news for the thing that's
impacting the
robot like
us yeah soft robots check generally are
a little bit safer for humans to be
around than a rigid robot that's made of
metal and sharp plastic and and all the
rest so from a very simple human robot
interaction point of view if we're going
to increasingly populate our world with
autonomous machines and we literally
bump into them it would be good if
they're
soft other advantages that are not so
obvious I it kind of allows for
essentially complex friction so they can
like pick stuff up without breaking it
absolutely there's a reason why your
fingertips are more soft than other
parts of your body it actually
facilitates Behavior having a being
built from soft material can be
helpful we have Endo we are we have
endoskeletons skeletons inside us we are
rigid on the inside and kind of soft on
the outside for very good reasons
smaller organisms like insects it's the
opposite rigid shell and soft insides
which makes sense for them at their size
scale other advantages of being soft
compared to being
rigid a
l op I think
their arms around all kind of different
absolutely so remember our discussion
when we talked about leg when we talked
about Locomotion the four deata one of
them is
robustness what is the range of
environments through which you can still
get from point A to point
B have a look at this organism it's
inside the let think about the inside of
the glass cube as point a and outside
the glass cube as point
B here's the hole in the glass cube
think about any possible organism you
could put inside this glass box if it
was us we wouldn't do so well one
advantage of being soft when it comes to
Locomotion or motion or displacement
which again is the building block of
most cognition soft-bodied organisms and
particularly this soft-bodied species
is the Undisputed champion of maximizing
the robustness a ACC axis of those four
deata have people seen this video
before no shortage of cool octopus
videos on YouTube this is my favorite
we wouldn't be watching this video If it
wasn't able to do this but even watching
the video it's hard to imagine that it's
going to pull this
off it's having trouble right at the end
anybody know
why not soft there's a part of it that's
not soft one part of the octopus is not
soft which
part the beak still got to eat and for
the octopus it's mostly mollusks if if
you're completely soft and you want to
eat a clam that's closed you need
something rigid one piece and you can
see how that one piece is actually a bit
of a literally a bottleneck in this
example right so there is evolutionary
pressure acting on this species to be
soft for the reason you just saw but
there is additional selection pressure
acting on the species to say you still
have to eat and your current diet is
mostly made up of mollusks here you can
see evolution trying to strike this
balance between soft and
rigid
okay from a robotics point of view this
could also be very useful why would we
want to have soft robots that can
navigate through very narrow
apertures we can't well we can't yeah so
why would we want a machine to do so go
places things that we go places that we
can't
coming all the way back to robotics
generally speaking we would like to
create robots to do the 4ds jobs that
are D D D or D anybody remember what the
4 DS
are
dangerous uh they're all good point
that's a fifth D they're all difficult
dangerous they're difficult because
they're dangerous difficult
no dirty
dirty dangerous dirty think about all
the jobs you really don't want to do you
don't want to do dangerous jobs don't
want to do dirty
jobs dull dull anybody have a summer job
like cleaning dishes at a
restaurant not great dangerous dirty
dull what's the fourth one
I don't know if any of you are
homeowners I am every once in a while
the pipes clog up in the house you just
want to get in there and figure out
what's in there what's stuck what do I
need to
do the distant parts of the plumbing in
my house are distant usually when we
talk about robots and distant jobs it's
Mars you know it's somewhere out there
the real distant things are things like
Drainage
Systems increasingly
the most distant thing is the vascul
system in the brain of a of a intact
human being there are terrible terrible
things that can happen to you in which
it would be great if we could get a
small machine into the vasculature
system inside the brain to have a look
around and literally just kick out
something that's clogging it not unlike
drains in a house that at the moment is
the most distant job known to the human
race distant in the sense of it there's
a long way to go to get there it's also
dangerous I don't know about dirty but
there you go so some of the reasons why
from just a purely engineering
perspective we would like to create
robots that are literally soft how do we
do it okay as you would imagine in this
course we're going to do it by evolving
bodies and brains of soft robots in
simulation and then transfer them to
reality so the first thing we need is a
physics engine that can handle soft
bodies one of the innovators in the
space is Professor Cheney who teaches
the evolutionary algorithms class uh in
the fall this is how uh Nick got his
start showing first of all that you
could evolve bodies and brains for
robots and you can guess what the
fitness function was in his 2015 paper
evolver robot to do exactly what you
just saw the oct us doing in Nick's 2015
paper he was using a particular physics
engine that we're going to spend a
moment talking about now this is uh Vox
Vox
CAD we've uh in this course you've seen
Pi bullet which R which simulates rigid
bodies for the grad students you've seen
Tai Chi which allows you to simulate
robots in a particular way where you can
track gradients this is a third class of
physics engines which are designed to
handle soft bodies how does Vox CAD
simulate soft bodies the hint is in the
name itself it's going to approximate
the body of soft robots using a whole
bunch of Cubes or voxels
three-dimensional volumetric pixels
voxels this is uh simulating materials
by breaking them down into a very large
number of small things
in this case these small things are
going to be voxal is known as a finite
element method if you've ever taken an
engineering class you'll often come
across this idea very very difficult to
simulate this thing so divide and
conquer don't simulate this thing
exactly as it is approximate it with a
larger and larger number of smaller and
smaller things yeah okay so Vox craft is
a form of a finite element method we've
got a finite number of these kinds of
elements you're GNA we're going to see a
bunch of movies from Vox Cad and soft
robots what you're seeing is a whole
bunch of these voxels that's the
graphics behind the graphics well here's
an example of the graphics here you'll
notice that these voxal have different
colors what do you think the the colors
are trying to tell us
why did the creator of this simulation
color some of these voxal one color and
another
color different
materials all voxels in a Vox CAD
simulation are not created equal each
voxel is going to have a slightly
different material property and we'll
see what those material properties are
in a moment for our purposes is if you
look carefully the red voxal are a
little soft and the blue voxels in the
middle are
stiffer okay all right so let's take
these one two 3 four five six and
there's a seventh voxel inside that you
can't see and let's shrink the size of
these voxal for a moment 1 2 3 4 5 6
seven Vo
what's going on during each time step of
the simulation of this thing you'll
notice that each pair of neighboring
voxal is attached by this flexible Blue
Bar these flexible blue bars are not
shown in the graphics they're hidden
we're going to just increase the size of
the voxels until they're all touching
one another when you run the simulation
you see a bunch of these twisting
turning
voxels what's really happening in these
is these blue bars between neighboring
voxal are twisting and
turning you'll notice that there are uh
two labels attached to each bar these
are physical parameters of These Bars
we'll talk about what these two
parameters are in a moment there are
also some physical uh physical
parameters that are being computed
by the physics engine on the voxel
itself the first one are forces we've
seen this before when we talked about
physics engines all of them or most of
them usually boil down to this the
physics engine figures out the forces
that are acting on every object the
physics engine knows the masses of the
object
the physics engine knows the forces
acting on each object it knows the
masses of each object so it can figure
out the acceleration of every object and
therefore the physics engine can update
the position and orientation of every
object let's to build up our intuition
assume that for this middle voxel here
there is one and only one force acting
on that voxal force of gravity this
voxel is being pulled down if it wasn't
connected to to these other six voxel
what would be what would be the
acceleration of that voxel where's it
going it would start to accelerate
downward at 9.8 m/s squared right so
nothing too surprising here we've seen
this before but this voxel is not
disconnected it's connected by these
blue beams to its six
Neighbors so as this inner as this inner
voxel starts to experience the downward
pull of gravity that's going to start to
also pull on this blue bar that connects
it to the voxel above
it this blue uh this blue connector here
is a
spring Springs require uh a couple of
numbers to specify how they work the
most important one for our purposes is
the stiffness of the spring which is
represented in this picture here as K so
I'm going to just pop out of this for a
moment and we're going to jump over to
uh Wikipedia for a
moment here's a spring over here and the
spring is experiencing a force pulling
it
down as this Force acts to pull the
spring down the spring is obviously
going to start to elongate and we can
measure the amount of displacement here
the amount of displacement in proportion
to this
Force okay so we can think about
different kinds of Springs that are
experiencing the same Force let's
imagine that this spring is made up of a
very very very thin metal
wire what can you tell me about
displacement pulling downward on a very
weak spring what's going to
happen for this Force displacement is
going to be high right okay now imagine
a string that's made of adamantium
infinitely strong metal and we pull
downward with any Force you like what
happens to the displacement it's zero
let's take this force and this
displacement and arrange it as a ratio
if we have an infinite strong strong
spring we know the denominator which is
displacement is always going to be zero
so for that spring made of adamantium it
has a stiffness
of infinity it's infinitely stiff yeah
if for whatever Force we pull
displacement is infinite we have an
infinitely weak spring that spring has a
stiffness of zero everybody see that
okay so for our purposes K is going to
describe how these blue beams which are
in essence Springs
operate when we start evolving these
things The evolutionary algorithm is
going to evolve
k for this inner this inner voxel which
is being pulled down by gravity If
evolution gives this particular spring
if it assigns it a low what happens to
the in
oxil what's its
a it's going to accelerate downward has
low stiffness if evolution happens to
give this particular spring a high value
of K and gravity is still acting on this
Cube It's going to resist it's not going
to pull down right okay you'll notice
there's a second number here uh there's
a second stiffness value
here these two sets of stiffnesses are
actually vectors of length three so
there are two length three vectors
associated with each and every spring
let's start with k here I we just talked
about if something pulls downward on the
spring if something is trying to stretch
the spring or alter alternatively
compress the spring it's going to resist
more or less
by the first of the three numbers inside
K if something actually pushes the
bottom of the spring left or right the
spring is also going to resist according
to the second value in this K Vector if
something pushes it forward or back it's
going to resist more or less so when I
we talk about pushing or pulling on a
spring there's actually three ways in
which we can perturb a spring try
compress it extend it push it left or
right or push it forward and back and
for different values for different
floating point three different floating
Point values for K it's going to
differentially resist those forces so
far so
good this second set K subf is another
set of three numbers that also dictate
the behavior of the spring how do you
think pitch rolling pitch roll and yah I
can grab the top of a spring and the
bottom of a spring and I can I always
forget one of them is roll one of them
is pitch one of them is yaah actually as
I hold the bottom I can roll pitch or
yaah the spring and then these three
numbers dictate how it's going to resist
those three things so for every spring
for every pair of connected voxels there
are six numbers which evolution is going
to a set that dictates how those two
voxal move and rotate relative to one
another as various forces act on
them
including collisions between themselves
if the spring compresses and those uh
those two voxal are being smooshed
together they will resist being smooshed
and Pull
Apart everybody see
that any questions about that okay I
think this is a good place to pause for
today you have a quiz due tonight you're
working on your final weekly report have
a good rest of your week and I'll see
you on Tuesday